it's easy to imagine that the a siege
affected only remote mountain ranges but
it also left a legacy that has affected
millions of people Manhattan the island
at the center of New York
when you look at it from a distance it's
actually got a very distinctive profile
there are two clusters of skyscrapers
with much lower buildings in the middle
this is a direct result of the a siege
20,000 years ago this part of America
was at the edge of a vast ice sheet that
covered much of the northern hemisphere
the ice would have tired over any modern
skyscrapers when it retreated just as in
Yosemite ace left behind these borders
and rock smoothed and polished by ace
the ace exposed the hard bedrock called
schist
solid enough for sinking deep
foundations to support tall buildings
without this schist New York can have
been built so high
the one part of the skyline that depth
is the one place where the ice sheet
deposited mud and soil no good for
building towering skyscrapers